docs/docs/contributing/documentation/style_guide.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_class_name: "hidden"
---

# Documentation Style Guide

As LangChain continues to grow, the surface area of documentation required to cover it continues to grow too.
This page provides guidelines for anyone writing documentation for LangChain, as well as some of our philosophies around
organization and structure.

## Philosophy

LangChain's documentation follows the [Diataxis framework](https://diataxis.fr).
Under this framework, all documentation falls under one of four categories: [Tutorials](/docs/contributing/documentation/style_guide/#tutorials),
[How-to guides](/docs/contributing/documentation/style_guide/#how-to-guides),
[References](/docs/contributing/documentation/style_guide/#references), and [Explanations](/docs/contributing/documentation/style_guide/#conceptual-guide).

### Tutorials

Tutorials are lessons that take the reader through a practical activity. Their purpose is to help the user
gain understanding of concepts and how they interact by showing one way to achieve some goal in a hands-on way. They should **avoid** giving
multiple permutations of ways to achieve that goal in-depth. Instead, it should guide a new user through a recommended path to accomplishing the tutorial's goal. While the end result of a tutorial does not necessarily need to
be completely production-ready, it should be useful and practically satisfy the the goal that you clearly stated in the tutorial's introduction. Information on how to address additional scenarios
belongs in how-to guides.

To quote the Diataxis website:

> A tutorial serves the user’s *acquisition* of skills and knowledge - their study. Its purpose is not to help the user get something done, but to help them learn.

In LangChain, these are often higher level guides that show off end-to-end use cases.

Some examples include:

- [Build a Simple LLM Application with LCEL](/docs/tutorials/llm_chain/)
- [Build a Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) App](/docs/tutorials/rag/)
  
Here are some high-level tips on writing a good tutorial:

- Focus on guiding the user to get something done, but keep in mind the end-goal is more to impart principles than to create a perfect production system.
- Be specific, not abstract and follow one path.
  - No need to go deeply into alternative approaches, but it’s ok to reference them, ideally with a link to an appropriate how-to guide.
- Get "a point on the board" as soon as possible - something the user can run that outputs something.
  - You can iterate and expand afterwards.
  - Try to frequently checkpoint at given steps where the user can run code and see progress.
- Focus on results, not technical explanation.
  - Crosslink heavily to appropriate conceptual/reference pages.
- The first time you mention a LangChain concept, use its full name (e.g. "LangChain Expression Language (LCEL)"), and link to its conceptual/other documentation page.
  - It's also helpful to add a prerequisite callout that links to any pages with necessary background information.
- End with a recap/next steps section summarizing what the tutorial covered and future reading, such as related how-to guides.
  
### How-to guides

A how-to guide, as the name implies, demonstrates how to do something discrete and specific.
It should assume that the user is already familiar with underlying concepts, and is trying to solve an immediate problem, but
should still give some background or list the scenarios where the information contained within can be relevant.
They can and should discuss alternatives if one approach may be better than another in certain cases.

To quote the Diataxis website:

> A how-to guide serves the work of the already-competent user, whom you can assume to know what they want to do, and to be able to follow your instructions correctly.

Some examples include:

- [How to: return structured data from a model](/docs/how_to/structured_output/)
- [How to: write a custom chat model](/docs/how_to/custom_chat_model/)

Here are some high-level tips on writing a good how-to guide:

- Clearly explain what you are guiding the user through at the start.
- Assume higher intent than a tutorial and show what the user needs to do to get that task done.
- Assume familiarity of concepts, but explain why suggested actions are helpful.
  - Crosslink heavily to conceptual/reference pages.
- Discuss alternatives and responses to real-world tradeoffs that may arise when solving a problem.
- Use lots of example code.
  - Prefer full code blocks that the reader can copy and run.
- End with a recap/next steps section summarizing what the tutorial covered and future reading, such as other related how-to guides.

### Conceptual guide

LangChain's conceptual guide falls under the **Explanation** quadrant of Diataxis. They should cover LangChain terms and concepts
in a more abstract way than how-to guides or tutorials, and should be geared towards curious users interested in
gaining a deeper understanding of the framework. Try to avoid excessively large code examples - the goal here is to
impart perspective to the user rather than to finish a practical project. These guides should cover **why** things work they way they do.

This guide on documentation style is meant to fall under this category.

To quote the Diataxis website:

> The perspective of explanation is higher and wider than that of the other types. It does not take the user’s eye-level view, as in a how-to guide, or a close-up view of the machinery, like reference material. Its scope in each case is a topic - “an area of knowledge”, that somehow has to be bounded in a reasonable, meaningful way.

Some examples include:

- [Retrieval conceptual docs](/docs/concepts/#retrieval)
- [Chat model conceptual docs](/docs/concepts/#chat-models)

Here are some high-level tips on writing a good conceptual guide:

- Explain design decisions. Why does concept X exist and why was it designed this way?
- Use analogies and reference other concepts and alternatives
- Avoid blending in too much reference content
- You can and should reference content covered in other guides, but make sure to link to them

### References

References contain detailed, low-level information that describes exactly what functionality exists and how to use it.
In LangChain, this is mainly our API reference pages, which are populated from docstrings within code.
References pages are generally not read end-to-end, but are consulted as necessary when a user needs to know
how to use something specific.

To quote the Diataxis website:

> The only purpose of a reference guide is to describe, as succinctly as possible, and in an orderly way. Whereas the content of tutorials and how-to guides are led by needs of the user, reference material is led by the product it describes.

Many of the reference pages in LangChain are automatically generated from code,
but here are some high-level tips on writing a good docstring:

- Be concise
- Discuss special cases and deviations from a user's expectations
- Go into detail on required inputs and outputs
- Light details on when one might use the feature are fine, but in-depth details belong in other sections.

Each category serves a distinct purpose and requires a specific approach to writing and structuring the content.

## General guidelines

Here are some other guidelines you should think about when writing and organizing documentation.

We generally do not merge new tutorials from outside contributors without an actue need.
We welcome updates as well as new integration docs, how-tos, and references.

### Avoid duplication

Multiple pages that cover the same material in depth are difficult to maintain and cause confusion. There should
be only one (very rarely two), canonical pages for a given concept or feature. Instead, you should link to other guides.

### Link to other sections

Because sections of the docs do not exist in a vacuum, it is important to link to other sections as often as possible
to allow a developer to learn more about an unfamiliar topic inline.

This includes linking to the API references as well as conceptual sections!

### Be concise

In general, take a less-is-more approach. If a section with a good explanation of a concept already exists, you should link to it rather than
re-explain it, unless the concept you are documenting presents some new wrinkle.

Be concise, including in code samples.

### General style

- Use active voice and present tense whenever possible
- Use examples and code snippets to illustrate concepts and usage
- Use appropriate header levels (`#`, `##`, `###`, etc.) to organize the content hierarchically
- Use fewer cells with more code to make copy/paste easier
- Use bullet points and numbered lists to break down information into easily digestible chunks
- Use tables (especially for **Reference** sections) and diagrams often to present information visually
- Include the table of contents for longer documentation pages to help readers navigate the content, but hide it for shorter pages

Commit message:

docs[patch]: Add structural example to style guide (#24133)
CC @nfcampos

docs/docs/contributing/documentation/style_guide.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_class_name: "hidden"
---

# Documentation Style Guide

As LangChain continues to grow, the surface area of documentation required to cover it continues to grow too.
This page provides guidelines for anyone writing documentation for LangChain, as well as some of our philosophies around
organization and structure.

## Philosophy

LangChain's documentation follows the [Diataxis framework](https://diataxis.fr).
Under this framework, all documentation falls under one of four categories: [Tutorials](/docs/contributing/documentation/style_guide/#tutorials),
[How-to guides](/docs/contributing/documentation/style_guide/#how-to-guides),
[References](/docs/contributing/documentation/style_guide/#references), and [Explanations](/docs/contributing/documentation/style_guide/#conceptual-guide).

### Tutorials

Tutorials are lessons that take the reader through a practical activity. Their purpose is to help the user
gain understanding of concepts and how they interact by showing one way to achieve some goal in a hands-on way. They should **avoid** giving
multiple permutations of ways to achieve that goal in-depth. Instead, it should guide a new user through a recommended path to accomplishing the tutorial's goal. While the end result of a tutorial does not necessarily need to
be completely production-ready, it should be useful and practically satisfy the the goal that you clearly stated in the tutorial's introduction. Information on how to address additional scenarios
belongs in how-to guides.

To quote the Diataxis website:

> A tutorial serves the user’s *acquisition* of skills and knowledge - their study. Its purpose is not to help the user get something done, but to help them learn.

In LangChain, these are often higher level guides that show off end-to-end use cases.

Some examples include:

- [Build a Simple LLM Application with LCEL](/docs/tutorials/llm_chain/)
- [Build a Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) App](/docs/tutorials/rag/)

A good structural rule of thumb is to follow the structure of this [example from Numpy](https://numpy.org/numpy-tutorials/content/tutorial-svd.html).
  
Here are some high-level tips on writing a good tutorial:

- Focus on guiding the user to get something done, but keep in mind the end-goal is more to impart principles than to create a perfect production system.
- Be specific, not abstract and follow one path.
  - No need to go deeply into alternative approaches, but it’s ok to reference them, ideally with a link to an appropriate how-to guide.
- Get "a point on the board" as soon as possible - something the user can run that outputs something.
  - You can iterate and expand afterwards.
  - Try to frequently checkpoint at given steps where the user can run code and see progress.
- Focus on results, not technical explanation.
  - Crosslink heavily to appropriate conceptual/reference pages.
- The first time you mention a LangChain concept, use its full name (e.g. "LangChain Expression Language (LCEL)"), and link to its conceptual/other documentation page.
  - It's also helpful to add a prerequisite callout that links to any pages with necessary background information.
- End with a recap/next steps section summarizing what the tutorial covered and future reading, such as related how-to guides.
  
### How-to guides

A how-to guide, as the name implies, demonstrates how to do something discrete and specific.
It should assume that the user is already familiar with underlying concepts, and is trying to solve an immediate problem, but
should still give some background or list the scenarios where the information contained within can be relevant.
They can and should discuss alternatives if one approach may be better than another in certain cases.

To quote the Diataxis website:

> A how-to guide serves the work of the already-competent user, whom you can assume to know what they want to do, and to be able to follow your instructions correctly.

Some examples include:

- [How to: return structured data from a model](/docs/how_to/structured_output/)
- [How to: write a custom chat model](/docs/how_to/custom_chat_model/)

Here are some high-level tips on writing a good how-to guide:

- Clearly explain what you are guiding the user through at the start.
- Assume higher intent than a tutorial and show what the user needs to do to get that task done.
- Assume familiarity of concepts, but explain why suggested actions are helpful.
  - Crosslink heavily to conceptual/reference pages.
- Discuss alternatives and responses to real-world tradeoffs that may arise when solving a problem.
- Use lots of example code.
  - Prefer full code blocks that the reader can copy and run.
- End with a recap/next steps section summarizing what the tutorial covered and future reading, such as other related how-to guides.

### Conceptual guide

LangChain's conceptual guide falls under the **Explanation** quadrant of Diataxis. They should cover LangChain terms and concepts
in a more abstract way than how-to guides or tutorials, and should be geared towards curious users interested in
gaining a deeper understanding of the framework. Try to avoid excessively large code examples - the goal here is to
impart perspective to the user rather than to finish a practical project. These guides should cover **why** things work they way they do.

This guide on documentation style is meant to fall under this category.

To quote the Diataxis website:

> The perspective of explanation is higher and wider than that of the other types. It does not take the user’s eye-level view, as in a how-to guide, or a close-up view of the machinery, like reference material. Its scope in each case is a topic - “an area of knowledge”, that somehow has to be bounded in a reasonable, meaningful way.

Some examples include:

- [Retrieval conceptual docs](/docs/concepts/#retrieval)
- [Chat model conceptual docs](/docs/concepts/#chat-models)

Here are some high-level tips on writing a good conceptual guide:

- Explain design decisions. Why does concept X exist and why was it designed this way?
- Use analogies and reference other concepts and alternatives
- Avoid blending in too much reference content
- You can and should reference content covered in other guides, but make sure to link to them

### References

References contain detailed, low-level information that describes exactly what functionality exists and how to use it.
In LangChain, this is mainly our API reference pages, which are populated from docstrings within code.
References pages are generally not read end-to-end, but are consulted as necessary when a user needs to know
how to use something specific.

To quote the Diataxis website:

> The only purpose of a reference guide is to describe, as succinctly as possible, and in an orderly way. Whereas the content of tutorials and how-to guides are led by needs of the user, reference material is led by the product it describes.

Many of the reference pages in LangChain are automatically generated from code,
but here are some high-level tips on writing a good docstring:

- Be concise
- Discuss special cases and deviations from a user's expectations
- Go into detail on required inputs and outputs
- Light details on when one might use the feature are fine, but in-depth details belong in other sections.

Each category serves a distinct purpose and requires a specific approach to writing and structuring the content.

## General guidelines

Here are some other guidelines you should think about when writing and organizing documentation.

We generally do not merge new tutorials from outside contributors without an actue need.
We welcome updates as well as new integration docs, how-tos, and references.

### Avoid duplication

Multiple pages that cover the same material in depth are difficult to maintain and cause confusion. There should
be only one (very rarely two), canonical pages for a given concept or feature. Instead, you should link to other guides.

### Link to other sections

Because sections of the docs do not exist in a vacuum, it is important to link to other sections as often as possible
to allow a developer to learn more about an unfamiliar topic inline.

This includes linking to the API references as well as conceptual sections!

### Be concise

In general, take a less-is-more approach. If a section with a good explanation of a concept already exists, you should link to it rather than
re-explain it, unless the concept you are documenting presents some new wrinkle.

Be concise, including in code samples.

### General style

- Use active voice and present tense whenever possible
- Use examples and code snippets to illustrate concepts and usage
- Use appropriate header levels (`#`, `##`, `###`, etc.) to organize the content hierarchically
- Use fewer cells with more code to make copy/paste easier
- Use bullet points and numbered lists to break down information into easily digestible chunks
- Use tables (especially for **Reference** sections) and diagrams often to present information visually
- Include the table of contents for longer documentation pages to help readers navigate the content, but hide it for shorter pages
