README.md, before:

# 🦜️🔗 LangChain

⚡ Build context-aware reasoning applications ⚡

[![Release Notes](https://img.shields.io/github/release/langchain-ai/langchain?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langchain/releases)
[![CI](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langchain/actions/workflows/check_diffs.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langchain/actions/workflows/check_diffs.yml)
[![PyPI - License](https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/langchain-core?style=flat-square)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![PyPI - Downloads](https://img.shields.io/pypi/dm/langchain-core?style=flat-square)](https://pypistats.org/packages/langchain-core)
[![GitHub star chart](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/langchain-ai/langchain?style=flat-square)](https://star-history.com/#langchain-ai/langchain)
[![Open Issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-raw/langchain-ai/langchain?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langchain/issues)
[![Open in Dev Containers](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=Dev%20Containers&message=Open&color=blue&logo=visualstudiocode&style=flat-square)](https://vscode.dev/redirect?url=vscode://ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers/cloneInVolume?url=https://github.com/langchain-ai/langchain)
[![Open in GitHub Codespaces](https://github.com/codespaces/badge.svg)](https://codespaces.new/langchain-ai/langchain)
[![Twitter](https://img.shields.io/twitter/url/https/twitter.com/langchainai.svg?style=social&label=Follow%20%40LangChainAI)](https://twitter.com/langchainai)

Looking for the JS/TS library? Check out [LangChain.js](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langchainjs).

To help you ship LangChain apps to production faster, check out [LangSmith](https://smith.langchain.com).
[LangSmith](https://smith.langchain.com) is a unified developer platform for building, testing, and monitoring LLM applications.
Fill out [this form](https://www.langchain.com/contact-sales) to speak with our sales team.

## Quick Install

With pip:

```bash
pip install langchain
```

With conda:

```bash
conda install langchain -c conda-forge
```

## 🤔 What is LangChain?

**LangChain** is a framework for developing applications powered by large language models (LLMs).

For these applications, LangChain simplifies the entire application lifecycle:

- **Open-source libraries**: Build your applications using LangChain's open-source [building blocks](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/concepts#langchain-expression-language-lcel), [components](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/concepts), and [third-party integrations](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/integrations/platforms/).
  Use [LangGraph](/docs/concepts/#langgraph) to build stateful agents with first-class streaming and human-in-the-loop support.
- **Productionization**: Inspect, monitor, and evaluate your apps with [LangSmith](https://docs.smith.langchain.com/) so that you can constantly optimize and deploy with confidence.
- **Deployment**: Turn your LangGraph applications into production-ready APIs and Assistants with [LangGraph Cloud](https://langchain-ai.github.io/langgraph/cloud/).

### Open-source libraries

- **`langchain-core`**: Base abstractions and LangChain Expression Language.
- **`langchain-community`**: Third party integrations.
  - Some integrations have been further split into **partner packages** that only rely on **`langchain-core`**. Examples include **`langchain_openai`** and **`langchain_anthropic`**.
- **`langchain`**: Chains, agents, and retrieval strategies that make up an application's cognitive architecture.
- **[`LangGraph`](https://langchain-ai.github.io/langgraph/)**: A library for building robust and stateful multi-actor applications with LLMs by modeling steps as edges and nodes in a graph. Integrates smoothly with LangChain, but can be used without it.

### Productionization:

- **[LangSmith](https://docs.smith.langchain.com/)**: A developer platform that lets you debug, test, evaluate, and monitor chains built on any LLM framework and seamlessly integrates with LangChain.

### Deployment:

- **[LangGraph Cloud](https://langchain-ai.github.io/langgraph/cloud/)**: Turn your LangGraph applications into production-ready APIs and Assistants.

![Diagram outlining the hierarchical organization of the LangChain framework, displaying the interconnected parts across multiple layers.](docs/static/svg/langchain_stack_062024.svg "LangChain Architecture Overview")

## 🧱 What can you build with LangChain?

**❓ Question answering with RAG**

- [Documentation](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/tutorials/rag/)
- End-to-end Example: [Chat LangChain](https://chat.langchain.com) and [repo](https://github.com/langchain-ai/chat-langchain)

**🧱 Extracting structured output**

- [Documentation](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/tutorials/extraction/)
- End-to-end Example: [SQL Llama2 Template](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langchain-extract/)

**🤖 Chatbots**

- [Documentation](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/tutorials/chatbot/)
- End-to-end Example: [Web LangChain (web researcher chatbot)](https://weblangchain.vercel.app) and [repo](https://github.com/langchain-ai/weblangchain)

And much more! Head to the [Tutorials](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/tutorials/) section of the docs for more.

## 🚀 How does LangChain help?

The main value props of the LangChain libraries are:

1. **Components**: composable building blocks, tools and integrations for working with language models. Components are modular and easy-to-use, whether you are using the rest of the LangChain framework or not
2. **Off-the-shelf chains**: built-in assemblages of components for accomplishing higher-level tasks

Off-the-shelf chains make it easy to get started. Components make it easy to customize existing chains and build new ones.

## LangChain Expression Language (LCEL)

LCEL is a key part of LangChain, allowing you to build and organize chains of processes in a straightforward, declarative manner. It was designed to support taking prototypes directly into production without needing to alter any code. This means you can use LCEL to set up everything from basic "prompt + LLM" setups to intricate, multi-step workflows.

- **[Overview](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/concepts/#langchain-expression-language-lcel)**: LCEL and its benefits
- **[Interface](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/concepts/#runnable-interface)**: The standard Runnable interface for LCEL objects
- **[Primitives](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/how_to/#langchain-expression-language-lcel)**: More on the primitives LCEL includes
- **[Cheatsheet](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/how_to/lcel_cheatsheet/)**: Quick overview of the most common usage patterns

## Components

Components fall into the following **modules**:

**📃 Model I/O**

This includes [prompt management](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/concepts/#prompt-templates), [prompt optimization](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/concepts/#example-selectors), a generic interface for [chat models](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/concepts/#chat-models) and [LLMs](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/concepts/#llms), and common utilities for working with [model outputs](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/concepts/#output-parsers).

**📚 Retrieval**

Retrieval Augmented Generation involves [loading data](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/concepts/#document-loaders) from a variety of sources, [preparing it](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/concepts/#text-splitters), then [searching over (a.k.a. retrieving from)](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/concepts/#retrievers) it for use in the generation step.

**🤖 Agents**

Agents allow an LLM autonomy over how a task is accomplished. Agents make decisions about which Actions to take, then take that Action, observe the result, and repeat until the task is complete. LangChain provides a [standard interface for agents](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/concepts/#agents), along with [LangGraph](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langgraph) for building custom agents.

## 📖 Documentation

Please see [here](https://python.langchain.com) for full documentation, which includes:

- [Introduction](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/introduction/): Overview of the framework and the structure of the docs.
- [Tutorials](https://python.langchain.com/docs/use_cases/): If you're looking to build something specific or are more of a hands-on learner, check out our tutorials. This is the best place to get started.
- [How-to guides](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/how_to/): Answers to “How do I….?” type questions. These guides are goal-oriented and concrete; they're meant to help you complete a specific task.
- [Conceptual guide](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/concepts/): Conceptual explanations of the key parts of the framework.
- [API Reference](https://api.python.langchain.com): Thorough documentation of every class and method.

## 🌐 Ecosystem

- [🦜🛠️ LangSmith](https://docs.smith.langchain.com/): Trace and evaluate your language model applications and intelligent agents to help you move from prototype to production.
- [🦜🕸️ LangGraph](https://langchain-ai.github.io/langgraph/): Create stateful, multi-actor applications with LLMs. Integrates smoothly with LangChain, but can be used without it.
- [🦜🏓 LangServe](https://python.langchain.com/docs/langserve): Deploy LangChain runnables and chains as REST APIs.

## 💁 Contributing

As an open-source project in a rapidly developing field, we are extremely open to contributions, whether it be in the form of a new feature, improved infrastructure, or better documentation.

For detailed information on how to contribute, see [here](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/contributing/).

## 🌟 Contributors

[![langchain contributors](https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=langchain-ai/langchain&max=2000)](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langchain/graphs/contributors)

Commit message:

docs: Adding LC Academy links (#26164)
Thank you for contributing to LangChain!

- [ ] **PR title**: "package: description"
- Where "package" is whichever of langchain, community, core,
experimental, etc. is being modified. Use "docs: ..." for purely docs
changes, "templates: ..." for template changes, "infra: ..." for CI
changes.
  - Example: "community: add foobar LLM"


- [ ] **PR message**: ***Delete this entire checklist*** and replace
with
    - **Description:** a description of the change
    - **Issue:** the issue # it fixes, if applicable
    - **Dependencies:** any dependencies required for this change
- **Twitter handle:** if your PR gets announced, and you'd like a
mention, we'll gladly shout you out!


- [ ] **Add tests and docs**: If you're adding a new integration, please
include
1. a test for the integration, preferably unit tests that do not rely on
network access,
2. an example notebook showing its use. It lives in
`docs/docs/integrations` directory.


- [ ] **Lint and test**: Run `make format`, `make lint` and `make test`
from the root of the package(s) you've modified. See contribution
guidelines for more: https://python.langchain.com/docs/contributing/

Additional guidelines:
- Make sure optional dependencies are imported within a function.
- Please do not add dependencies to pyproject.toml files (even optional
ones) unless they are required for unit tests.
- Most PRs should not touch more than one package.
- Changes should be backwards compatible.
- If you are adding something to community, do not re-import it in
langchain.

If no one reviews your PR within a few days, please @-mention one of
baskaryan, efriis, eyurtsev, ccurme, vbarda, hwchase17.

---------

Co-authored-by: Jess Ou <jessou@jesss-mbp.local.meter>
Co-authored-by: Erick Friis <erick@langchain.dev>

README.md, after:

# 🦜️🔗 LangChain

⚡ Build context-aware reasoning applications ⚡

[![Release Notes](https://img.shields.io/github/release/langchain-ai/langchain?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langchain/releases)
[![CI](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langchain/actions/workflows/check_diffs.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langchain/actions/workflows/check_diffs.yml)
[![PyPI - License](https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/langchain-core?style=flat-square)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![PyPI - Downloads](https://img.shields.io/pypi/dm/langchain-core?style=flat-square)](https://pypistats.org/packages/langchain-core)
[![GitHub star chart](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/langchain-ai/langchain?style=flat-square)](https://star-history.com/#langchain-ai/langchain)
[![Open Issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-raw/langchain-ai/langchain?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langchain/issues)
[![Open in Dev Containers](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=Dev%20Containers&message=Open&color=blue&logo=visualstudiocode&style=flat-square)](https://vscode.dev/redirect?url=vscode://ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers/cloneInVolume?url=https://github.com/langchain-ai/langchain)
[![Open in GitHub Codespaces](https://github.com/codespaces/badge.svg)](https://codespaces.new/langchain-ai/langchain)
[![Twitter](https://img.shields.io/twitter/url/https/twitter.com/langchainai.svg?style=social&label=Follow%20%40LangChainAI)](https://twitter.com/langchainai)

Looking for the JS/TS library? Check out [LangChain.js](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langchainjs).

To help you ship LangChain apps to production faster, check out [LangSmith](https://smith.langchain.com).
[LangSmith](https://smith.langchain.com) is a unified developer platform for building, testing, and monitoring LLM applications.
Fill out [this form](https://www.langchain.com/contact-sales) to speak with our sales team.

## Quick Install

With pip:

```bash
pip install langchain
```

With conda:

```bash
conda install langchain -c conda-forge
```

## 🤔 What is LangChain?

**LangChain** is a framework for developing applications powered by large language models (LLMs).

For these applications, LangChain simplifies the entire application lifecycle:

- **Open-source libraries**: Build your applications using LangChain's open-source [building blocks](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/concepts#langchain-expression-language-lcel), [components](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/concepts), and [third-party integrations](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/integrations/platforms/).
  Use [LangGraph](/docs/concepts/#langgraph) to build stateful agents with first-class streaming and human-in-the-loop support.
- **Productionization**: Inspect, monitor, and evaluate your apps with [LangSmith](https://docs.smith.langchain.com/) so that you can constantly optimize and deploy with confidence.
- **Deployment**: Turn your LangGraph applications into production-ready APIs and Assistants with [LangGraph Cloud](https://langchain-ai.github.io/langgraph/cloud/).

### Open-source libraries

- **`langchain-core`**: Base abstractions and LangChain Expression Language.
- **`langchain-community`**: Third party integrations.
  - Some integrations have been further split into **partner packages** that only rely on **`langchain-core`**. Examples include **`langchain_openai`** and **`langchain_anthropic`**.
- **`langchain`**: Chains, agents, and retrieval strategies that make up an application's cognitive architecture.
- **[`LangGraph`](https://langchain-ai.github.io/langgraph/)**: A library for building robust and stateful multi-actor applications with LLMs by modeling steps as edges and nodes in a graph. Integrates smoothly with LangChain, but can be used without it. To learn more about LangGraph, check out our first LangChain Academy course, *Introduction to LangGraph*, available [here](https://academy.langchain.com/courses/intro-to-langgraph).

### Productionization:

- **[LangSmith](https://docs.smith.langchain.com/)**: A developer platform that lets you debug, test, evaluate, and monitor chains built on any LLM framework and seamlessly integrates with LangChain.

### Deployment:

- **[LangGraph Cloud](https://langchain-ai.github.io/langgraph/cloud/)**: Turn your LangGraph applications into production-ready APIs and Assistants.

![Diagram outlining the hierarchical organization of the LangChain framework, displaying the interconnected parts across multiple layers.](docs/static/svg/langchain_stack_062024.svg "LangChain Architecture Overview")

## 🧱 What can you build with LangChain?

**❓ Question answering with RAG**

- [Documentation](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/tutorials/rag/)
- End-to-end Example: [Chat LangChain](https://chat.langchain.com) and [repo](https://github.com/langchain-ai/chat-langchain)

**🧱 Extracting structured output**

- [Documentation](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/tutorials/extraction/)
- End-to-end Example: [SQL Llama2 Template](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langchain-extract/)

**🤖 Chatbots**

- [Documentation](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/tutorials/chatbot/)
- End-to-end Example: [Web LangChain (web researcher chatbot)](https://weblangchain.vercel.app) and [repo](https://github.com/langchain-ai/weblangchain)

And much more! Head to the [Tutorials](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/tutorials/) section of the docs for more.

## 🚀 How does LangChain help?

The main value props of the LangChain libraries are:

1. **Components**: composable building blocks, tools and integrations for working with language models. Components are modular and easy-to-use, whether you are using the rest of the LangChain framework or not
2. **Off-the-shelf chains**: built-in assemblages of components for accomplishing higher-level tasks

Off-the-shelf chains make it easy to get started. Components make it easy to customize existing chains and build new ones.

## LangChain Expression Language (LCEL)

LCEL is a key part of LangChain, allowing you to build and organize chains of processes in a straightforward, declarative manner. It was designed to support taking prototypes directly into production without needing to alter any code. This means you can use LCEL to set up everything from basic "prompt + LLM" setups to intricate, multi-step workflows.

- **[Overview](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/concepts/#langchain-expression-language-lcel)**: LCEL and its benefits
- **[Interface](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/concepts/#runnable-interface)**: The standard Runnable interface for LCEL objects
- **[Primitives](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/how_to/#langchain-expression-language-lcel)**: More on the primitives LCEL includes
- **[Cheatsheet](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/how_to/lcel_cheatsheet/)**: Quick overview of the most common usage patterns

## Components

Components fall into the following **modules**:

**📃 Model I/O**

This includes [prompt management](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/concepts/#prompt-templates), [prompt optimization](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/concepts/#example-selectors), a generic interface for [chat models](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/concepts/#chat-models) and [LLMs](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/concepts/#llms), and common utilities for working with [model outputs](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/concepts/#output-parsers).

**📚 Retrieval**

Retrieval Augmented Generation involves [loading data](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/concepts/#document-loaders) from a variety of sources, [preparing it](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/concepts/#text-splitters), then [searching over (a.k.a. retrieving from)](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/concepts/#retrievers) it for use in the generation step.

**🤖 Agents**

Agents allow an LLM autonomy over how a task is accomplished. Agents make decisions about which Actions to take, then take that Action, observe the result, and repeat until the task is complete. LangChain provides a [standard interface for agents](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/concepts/#agents), along with [LangGraph](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langgraph) for building custom agents.

## 📖 Documentation

Please see [here](https://python.langchain.com) for full documentation, which includes:

- [Introduction](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/introduction/): Overview of the framework and the structure of the docs.
- [Tutorials](https://python.langchain.com/docs/use_cases/): If you're looking to build something specific or are more of a hands-on learner, check out our tutorials. This is the best place to get started.
- [How-to guides](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/how_to/): Answers to “How do I….?” type questions. These guides are goal-oriented and concrete; they're meant to help you complete a specific task.
- [Conceptual guide](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/concepts/): Conceptual explanations of the key parts of the framework.
- [API Reference](https://api.python.langchain.com): Thorough documentation of every class and method.

## 🌐 Ecosystem

- [🦜🛠️ LangSmith](https://docs.smith.langchain.com/): Trace and evaluate your language model applications and intelligent agents to help you move from prototype to production.
- [🦜🕸️ LangGraph](https://langchain-ai.github.io/langgraph/): Create stateful, multi-actor applications with LLMs. Integrates smoothly with LangChain, but can be used without it.
- [🦜🏓 LangServe](https://python.langchain.com/docs/langserve): Deploy LangChain runnables and chains as REST APIs.

## 💁 Contributing

As an open-source project in a rapidly developing field, we are extremely open to contributions, whether it be in the form of a new feature, improved infrastructure, or better documentation.

For detailed information on how to contribute, see [here](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/contributing/).

## 🌟 Contributors

[![langchain contributors](https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=langchain-ai/langchain&max=2000)](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langchain/graphs/contributors)
