docs/docs/versions/v0_2/deprecations.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
sidebar_label: Changes
keywords: [retrievalqa, llmchain, conversationalretrievalchain]
---

# Deprecations and Breaking Changes

This code contains a list of deprecations and removals in the `langchain` and `langchain-core` packages.

New features and improvements are not listed here. See the [overview](/docs/versions/overview/) for a summary of what's new in this release.

## Breaking changes

As of release 0.2.0, `langchain` is required to be integration-agnostic. This means that code in `langchain`  should not by default instantiate any specific chat models, llms, embedding models, vectorstores etc; instead, the user will be required to specify those explicitly.

The following functions and classes require an explicit LLM to be passed as an argument:

- `langchain.agents.agent_toolkits.vectorstore.toolkit.VectorStoreToolkit`
- `langchain.agents.agent_toolkits.vectorstore.toolkit.VectorStoreRouterToolkit`
- `langchain.chains.openai_functions.get_openapi_chain`
- `langchain.chains.router.MultiRetrievalQAChain.from_retrievers`
- `langchain.indexes.VectorStoreIndexWrapper.query`
- `langchain.indexes.VectorStoreIndexWrapper.query_with_sources`
- `langchain.indexes.VectorStoreIndexWrapper.aquery_with_sources`
- `langchain.chains.flare.FlareChain`


The following classes now require passing an explicit Embedding model as an argument:

- `langchain.indexes.VectostoreIndexCreator`

The following code has been removed:

- `langchain.natbot.NatBotChain.from_default` removed in favor of the `from_llm` class method.

Behavior was changed for the following code:


### @tool decorator

`@tool` decorator now assigns the function doc-string as the tool description. Previously, the `@tool` decorator
using to prepend the function signature.

Before 0.2.0:

```python
@tool
def my_tool(x: str) -> str:
    """Some description."""
    return "something"

print(my_tool.description)
```

Would result in: `my_tool: (x: str) -> str - Some description.`

As of 0.2.0:

It will result in: `Some description.`

## Code that moved to another package

Code that was moved from `langchain` into another package (e.g, `langchain-community`)

If you try to import it from `langchain`, the import will keep on working, but will raise a deprecation warning. The warning will provide a replacement import statement.

 ```shell
 python -c "from langchain.document_loaders.markdown import UnstructuredMarkdownLoader"
```

 ```shell
 LangChainDeprecationWarning: Importing UnstructuredMarkdownLoader from langchain.document_loaders is deprecated. Please replace deprecated imports:

 >> from langchain.document_loaders import UnstructuredMarkdownLoader

 with new imports of:

 >> from langchain_community.document_loaders import UnstructuredMarkdownLoader
```

We will continue supporting the imports in `langchain` until release 0.4 as long as the relevant package where the code lives is installed. (e.g., as long as `langchain_community` is installed.)

However, we advise for users to not rely on these imports and instead migrate to the new imports. To help with this process, we’re releasing a migration script via the LangChain CLI. See further instructions in migration guide.

## Code targeted for removal

Code that has better alternatives available and will eventually be removed, so there’s only a single way to do things. (e.g., `predict_messages` method in ChatModels has been deprecated in favor of `invoke`).

### astream events V1

If you are using `astream_events`, please review how to [migrate to astream events v2](/docs/versions/v0_2/migrating_astream_events).

### langchain_core

#### try_load_from_hub


In module: `utils.loading`
Deprecated: 0.1.30
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: Using the hwchase17/langchain-hub repo for prompts is deprecated. Please use https://smith.langchain.com/hub instead.


#### BaseLanguageModel.predict


In module: `language_models.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.7
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: invoke


#### BaseLanguageModel.predict_messages


In module: `language_models.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.7
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: invoke


#### BaseLanguageModel.apredict


In module: `language_models.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.7
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: ainvoke


#### BaseLanguageModel.apredict_messages


In module: `language_models.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.7
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: ainvoke


#### RunTypeEnum


In module: `tracers.schemas`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: Use string instead.


#### TracerSessionV1Base


In module: `tracers.schemas`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative:


#### TracerSessionV1Create


In module: `tracers.schemas`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative:


#### TracerSessionV1


In module: `tracers.schemas`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative:


#### TracerSessionBase


In module: `tracers.schemas`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative:


#### TracerSession


In module: `tracers.schemas`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative:


#### BaseRun


In module: `tracers.schemas`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: Run


#### LLMRun


In module: `tracers.schemas`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: Run


#### ChainRun


In module: `tracers.schemas`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: Run


#### ToolRun


In module: `tracers.schemas`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: Run


#### BaseChatModel.__call__


In module: `language_models.chat_models`
Deprecated: 0.1.7
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: invoke


#### BaseChatModel.call_as_llm


In module: `language_models.chat_models`
Deprecated: 0.1.7
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: invoke


#### BaseChatModel.predict


In module: `language_models.chat_models`
Deprecated: 0.1.7
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: invoke


#### BaseChatModel.predict_messages


In module: `language_models.chat_models`
Deprecated: 0.1.7
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: invoke


#### BaseChatModel.apredict


In module: `language_models.chat_models`
Deprecated: 0.1.7
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: ainvoke


#### BaseChatModel.apredict_messages


In module: `language_models.chat_models`
Deprecated: 0.1.7
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: ainvoke


#### BaseLLM.__call__


In module: `language_models.llms`
Deprecated: 0.1.7
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: invoke


#### BaseLLM.predict


In module: `language_models.llms`
Deprecated: 0.1.7
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: invoke


#### BaseLLM.predict_messages


In module: `language_models.llms`
Deprecated: 0.1.7
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: invoke


#### BaseLLM.apredict


In module: `language_models.llms`
Deprecated: 0.1.7
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: ainvoke


#### BaseLLM.apredict_messages


In module: `language_models.llms`
Deprecated: 0.1.7
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: ainvoke


#### BaseRetriever.get_relevant_documents


In module: `retrievers`
Deprecated: 0.1.46
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: invoke


#### BaseRetriever.aget_relevant_documents


In module: `retrievers`
Deprecated: 0.1.46
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: ainvoke


#### ChatPromptTemplate.from_role_strings


In module: `prompts.chat`
Deprecated: 0.0.1
Removal:


Alternative: from_messages classmethod


#### ChatPromptTemplate.from_strings


In module: `prompts.chat`
Deprecated: 0.0.1
Removal:


Alternative: from_messages classmethod


#### BaseTool.__call__


In module: `tools`
Deprecated: 0.1.47
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: invoke


#### convert_pydantic_to_openai_function


In module: `utils.function_calling`
Deprecated: 0.1.16
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: langchain_core.utils.function_calling.convert_to_openai_function()


#### convert_pydantic_to_openai_tool


In module: `utils.function_calling`
Deprecated: 0.1.16
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: langchain_core.utils.function_calling.convert_to_openai_tool()


#### convert_python_function_to_openai_function


In module: `utils.function_calling`
Deprecated: 0.1.16
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: langchain_core.utils.function_calling.convert_to_openai_function()


#### format_tool_to_openai_function


In module: `utils.function_calling`
Deprecated: 0.1.16
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: langchain_core.utils.function_calling.convert_to_openai_function()


#### format_tool_to_openai_tool


In module: `utils.function_calling`
Deprecated: 0.1.16
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: langchain_core.utils.function_calling.convert_to_openai_tool()


### langchain


#### AgentType


In module: `agents.agent_types`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: Use [LangGraph](/docs/how_to/migrate_agent/) or new agent constructor methods like create_react_agent, create_json_agent, create_structured_chat_agent, etc.


#### Chain.__call__


In module: `chains.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: invoke


#### Chain.acall


In module: `chains.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: ainvoke


#### Chain.run


In module: `chains.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: invoke


#### Chain.arun


In module: `chains.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: ainvoke


#### Chain.apply


In module: `chains.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: batch


#### LLMChain


In module: `chains.llm`
Deprecated: 0.1.17
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: [RunnableSequence](/docs/how_to/sequence/), e.g., `prompt | llm`


#### LLMSingleActionAgent


In module: `agents.agent`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: Use [LangGraph](/docs/how_to/migrate_agent/) or new agent constructor methods like create_react_agent, create_json_agent, create_structured_chat_agent, etc.


#### Agent


In module: `agents.agent`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: Use [LangGraph](/docs/how_to/migrate_agent/) or new agent constructor methods like create_react_agent, create_json_agent, create_structured_chat_agent, etc.


#### OpenAIFunctionsAgent


In module: `agents.openai_functions_agent.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: create_openai_functions_agent


#### ZeroShotAgent


In module: `agents.mrkl.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: create_react_agent


#### MRKLChain


In module: `agents.mrkl.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative:


#### ConversationalAgent


In module: `agents.conversational.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: create_react_agent


#### ConversationalChatAgent


In module: `agents.conversational_chat.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: create_json_chat_agent


#### ChatAgent


In module: `agents.chat.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: create_react_agent


#### OpenAIMultiFunctionsAgent


In module: `agents.openai_functions_multi_agent.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: create_openai_tools_agent


#### ReActDocstoreAgent


In module: `agents.react.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative:


#### DocstoreExplorer


In module: `agents.react.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative:


#### ReActTextWorldAgent


In module: `agents.react.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative:


#### ReActChain


In module: `agents.react.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative:


#### SelfAskWithSearchAgent


In module: `agents.self_ask_with_search.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: create_self_ask_with_search


#### SelfAskWithSearchChain


In module: `agents.self_ask_with_search.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative:


#### StructuredChatAgent


In module: `agents.structured_chat.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: create_structured_chat_agent


#### RetrievalQA


In module: `chains.retrieval_qa.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.17
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: [create_retrieval_chain](https://api.python.langchain.com/en/latest/chains/langchain.chains.retrieval.create_retrieval_chain.html#langchain-chains-retrieval-create-retrieval-chain)


#### load_agent_from_config


In module: `agents.loading`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative:


#### load_agent


In module: `agents.loading`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative:


#### initialize_agent


In module: `agents.initialize`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: Use [LangGraph](/docs/how_to/migrate_agent/) or new agent constructor methods like create_react_agent, create_json_agent, create_structured_chat_agent, etc.


#### XMLAgent


In module: `agents.xml.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: create_xml_agent


#### CohereRerank


In module: `retrievers.document_compressors.cohere_rerank`
Deprecated: 0.0.30
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: langchain_cohere.CohereRerank


#### ConversationalRetrievalChain


In module: `chains.conversational_retrieval.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.17
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: [create_history_aware_retriever](https://api.python.langchain.com/en/latest/chains/langchain.chains.history_aware_retriever.create_history_aware_retriever.html) together with [create_retrieval_chain](https://api.python.langchain.com/en/latest/chains/langchain.chains.retrieval.create_retrieval_chain.html#langchain-chains-retrieval-create-retrieval-chain) (see example in docstring)


#### create_extraction_chain_pydantic


In module: `chains.openai_tools.extraction`
Deprecated: 0.1.14
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: [with_structured_output](/docs/how_to/structured_output/#the-with_structured_output-method) method on chat models that support tool calling.


#### create_openai_fn_runnable


In module: `chains.structured_output.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.14
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: [with_structured_output](/docs/how_to/structured_output/#the-with_structured_output-method) method on chat models that support tool calling.


#### create_structured_output_runnable


In module: `chains.structured_output.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.17
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: [with_structured_output](/docs/how_to/structured_output/#the-with_structured_output-method) method on chat models that support tool calling.


#### create_openai_fn_chain


In module: `chains.openai_functions.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.1
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: create_openai_fn_runnable


#### create_structured_output_chain


In module: `chains.openai_functions.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.1
Removal: 0.3.0

Alternative: ChatOpenAI.with_structured_output


#### create_extraction_chain


In module: `chains.openai_functions.extraction`
Deprecated: 0.1.14
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: [with_structured_output](/docs/how_to/structured_output/#the-with_structured_output-method) method on chat models that support tool calling.


#### create_extraction_chain_pydantic


In module: `chains.openai_functions.extraction`
Deprecated: 0.1.14
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: [with_structured_output](/docs/how_to/structured_output/#the-with_structured_output-method) method on chat models that support tool calling.

Commit message:

docs: chain migration guide (#23844)
Co-authored-by: jacoblee93 <jacoblee93@gmail.com>

docs/docs/versions/v0_2/deprecations.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 3
sidebar_label: Changes
keywords: [retrievalqa, llmchain, conversationalretrievalchain]
---

# Deprecations and Breaking Changes

This code contains a list of deprecations and removals in the `langchain` and `langchain-core` packages.

New features and improvements are not listed here. See the [overview](/docs/versions/overview/) for a summary of what's new in this release.

## Breaking changes

As of release 0.2.0, `langchain` is required to be integration-agnostic. This means that code in `langchain`  should not by default instantiate any specific chat models, llms, embedding models, vectorstores etc; instead, the user will be required to specify those explicitly.

The following functions and classes require an explicit LLM to be passed as an argument:

- `langchain.agents.agent_toolkits.vectorstore.toolkit.VectorStoreToolkit`
- `langchain.agents.agent_toolkits.vectorstore.toolkit.VectorStoreRouterToolkit`
- `langchain.chains.openai_functions.get_openapi_chain`
- `langchain.chains.router.MultiRetrievalQAChain.from_retrievers`
- `langchain.indexes.VectorStoreIndexWrapper.query`
- `langchain.indexes.VectorStoreIndexWrapper.query_with_sources`
- `langchain.indexes.VectorStoreIndexWrapper.aquery_with_sources`
- `langchain.chains.flare.FlareChain`


The following classes now require passing an explicit Embedding model as an argument:

- `langchain.indexes.VectostoreIndexCreator`

The following code has been removed:

- `langchain.natbot.NatBotChain.from_default` removed in favor of the `from_llm` class method.

Behavior was changed for the following code:


### @tool decorator

`@tool` decorator now assigns the function doc-string as the tool description. Previously, the `@tool` decorator
using to prepend the function signature.

Before 0.2.0:

```python
@tool
def my_tool(x: str) -> str:
    """Some description."""
    return "something"

print(my_tool.description)
```

Would result in: `my_tool: (x: str) -> str - Some description.`

As of 0.2.0:

It will result in: `Some description.`

## Code that moved to another package

Code that was moved from `langchain` into another package (e.g, `langchain-community`)

If you try to import it from `langchain`, the import will keep on working, but will raise a deprecation warning. The warning will provide a replacement import statement.

 ```shell
 python -c "from langchain.document_loaders.markdown import UnstructuredMarkdownLoader"
```

 ```shell
 LangChainDeprecationWarning: Importing UnstructuredMarkdownLoader from langchain.document_loaders is deprecated. Please replace deprecated imports:

 >> from langchain.document_loaders import UnstructuredMarkdownLoader

 with new imports of:

 >> from langchain_community.document_loaders import UnstructuredMarkdownLoader
```

We will continue supporting the imports in `langchain` until release 0.4 as long as the relevant package where the code lives is installed. (e.g., as long as `langchain_community` is installed.)

However, we advise for users to not rely on these imports and instead migrate to the new imports. To help with this process, we’re releasing a migration script via the LangChain CLI. See further instructions in migration guide.

## Code targeted for removal

Code that has better alternatives available and will eventually be removed, so there’s only a single way to do things. (e.g., `predict_messages` method in ChatModels has been deprecated in favor of `invoke`).

### astream events V1

If you are using `astream_events`, please review how to [migrate to astream events v2](/docs/versions/v0_2/migrating_astream_events).

### langchain_core

#### try_load_from_hub


In module: `utils.loading`
Deprecated: 0.1.30
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: Using the hwchase17/langchain-hub repo for prompts is deprecated. Please use https://smith.langchain.com/hub instead.


#### BaseLanguageModel.predict


In module: `language_models.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.7
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: invoke


#### BaseLanguageModel.predict_messages


In module: `language_models.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.7
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: invoke


#### BaseLanguageModel.apredict


In module: `language_models.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.7
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: ainvoke


#### BaseLanguageModel.apredict_messages


In module: `language_models.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.7
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: ainvoke


#### RunTypeEnum


In module: `tracers.schemas`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: Use string instead.


#### TracerSessionV1Base


In module: `tracers.schemas`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative:


#### TracerSessionV1Create


In module: `tracers.schemas`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative:


#### TracerSessionV1


In module: `tracers.schemas`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative:


#### TracerSessionBase


In module: `tracers.schemas`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative:


#### TracerSession


In module: `tracers.schemas`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative:


#### BaseRun


In module: `tracers.schemas`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: Run


#### LLMRun


In module: `tracers.schemas`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: Run


#### ChainRun


In module: `tracers.schemas`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: Run


#### ToolRun


In module: `tracers.schemas`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: Run


#### BaseChatModel.__call__


In module: `language_models.chat_models`
Deprecated: 0.1.7
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: invoke


#### BaseChatModel.call_as_llm


In module: `language_models.chat_models`
Deprecated: 0.1.7
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: invoke


#### BaseChatModel.predict


In module: `language_models.chat_models`
Deprecated: 0.1.7
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: invoke


#### BaseChatModel.predict_messages


In module: `language_models.chat_models`
Deprecated: 0.1.7
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: invoke


#### BaseChatModel.apredict


In module: `language_models.chat_models`
Deprecated: 0.1.7
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: ainvoke


#### BaseChatModel.apredict_messages


In module: `language_models.chat_models`
Deprecated: 0.1.7
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: ainvoke


#### BaseLLM.__call__


In module: `language_models.llms`
Deprecated: 0.1.7
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: invoke


#### BaseLLM.predict


In module: `language_models.llms`
Deprecated: 0.1.7
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: invoke


#### BaseLLM.predict_messages


In module: `language_models.llms`
Deprecated: 0.1.7
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: invoke


#### BaseLLM.apredict


In module: `language_models.llms`
Deprecated: 0.1.7
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: ainvoke


#### BaseLLM.apredict_messages


In module: `language_models.llms`
Deprecated: 0.1.7
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: ainvoke


#### BaseRetriever.get_relevant_documents


In module: `retrievers`
Deprecated: 0.1.46
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: invoke


#### BaseRetriever.aget_relevant_documents


In module: `retrievers`
Deprecated: 0.1.46
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: ainvoke


#### ChatPromptTemplate.from_role_strings


In module: `prompts.chat`
Deprecated: 0.0.1
Removal:


Alternative: from_messages classmethod


#### ChatPromptTemplate.from_strings


In module: `prompts.chat`
Deprecated: 0.0.1
Removal:


Alternative: from_messages classmethod


#### BaseTool.__call__


In module: `tools`
Deprecated: 0.1.47
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: invoke


#### convert_pydantic_to_openai_function


In module: `utils.function_calling`
Deprecated: 0.1.16
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: langchain_core.utils.function_calling.convert_to_openai_function()


#### convert_pydantic_to_openai_tool


In module: `utils.function_calling`
Deprecated: 0.1.16
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: langchain_core.utils.function_calling.convert_to_openai_tool()


#### convert_python_function_to_openai_function


In module: `utils.function_calling`
Deprecated: 0.1.16
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: langchain_core.utils.function_calling.convert_to_openai_function()


#### format_tool_to_openai_function


In module: `utils.function_calling`
Deprecated: 0.1.16
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: langchain_core.utils.function_calling.convert_to_openai_function()


#### format_tool_to_openai_tool


In module: `utils.function_calling`
Deprecated: 0.1.16
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: langchain_core.utils.function_calling.convert_to_openai_tool()


### langchain


#### AgentType


In module: `agents.agent_types`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: Use [LangGraph](/docs/how_to/migrate_agent/) or new agent constructor methods like create_react_agent, create_json_agent, create_structured_chat_agent, etc.


#### Chain.__call__


In module: `chains.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: invoke


#### Chain.acall


In module: `chains.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: ainvoke


#### Chain.run


In module: `chains.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: invoke


#### Chain.arun


In module: `chains.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: ainvoke


#### Chain.apply


In module: `chains.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: batch


#### LLMChain


In module: `chains.llm`
Deprecated: 0.1.17
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: [RunnableSequence](/docs/how_to/sequence/), e.g., `prompt | llm`

This [migration guide](/docs/how_to/migrate_chains/#llmchain) has a side-by-side comparison.


#### LLMSingleActionAgent


In module: `agents.agent`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: Use [LangGraph](/docs/how_to/migrate_agent/) or new agent constructor methods like create_react_agent, create_json_agent, create_structured_chat_agent, etc.


#### Agent


In module: `agents.agent`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: Use [LangGraph](/docs/how_to/migrate_agent/) or new agent constructor methods like create_react_agent, create_json_agent, create_structured_chat_agent, etc.


#### OpenAIFunctionsAgent


In module: `agents.openai_functions_agent.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: create_openai_functions_agent


#### ZeroShotAgent


In module: `agents.mrkl.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: create_react_agent


#### MRKLChain


In module: `agents.mrkl.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative:


#### ConversationalAgent


In module: `agents.conversational.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: create_react_agent


#### ConversationalChatAgent


In module: `agents.conversational_chat.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: create_json_chat_agent


#### ChatAgent


In module: `agents.chat.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: create_react_agent


#### OpenAIMultiFunctionsAgent


In module: `agents.openai_functions_multi_agent.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: create_openai_tools_agent


#### ReActDocstoreAgent


In module: `agents.react.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative:


#### DocstoreExplorer


In module: `agents.react.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative:


#### ReActTextWorldAgent


In module: `agents.react.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative:


#### ReActChain


In module: `agents.react.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative:


#### SelfAskWithSearchAgent


In module: `agents.self_ask_with_search.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: create_self_ask_with_search


#### SelfAskWithSearchChain


In module: `agents.self_ask_with_search.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative:


#### StructuredChatAgent


In module: `agents.structured_chat.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: create_structured_chat_agent


#### RetrievalQA


In module: `chains.retrieval_qa.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.17
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: [create_retrieval_chain](https://api.python.langchain.com/en/latest/chains/langchain.chains.retrieval.create_retrieval_chain.html#langchain-chains-retrieval-create-retrieval-chain)
This [migration guide](/docs/how_to/migrate_chains/#retrievalqa) has a side-by-side comparison.


#### load_agent_from_config


In module: `agents.loading`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative:


#### load_agent


In module: `agents.loading`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative:


#### initialize_agent


In module: `agents.initialize`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: Use [LangGraph](/docs/how_to/migrate_agent/) or new agent constructor methods like create_react_agent, create_json_agent, create_structured_chat_agent, etc.


#### XMLAgent


In module: `agents.xml.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.0
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: create_xml_agent


#### CohereRerank


In module: `retrievers.document_compressors.cohere_rerank`
Deprecated: 0.0.30
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: langchain_cohere.CohereRerank


#### ConversationalRetrievalChain


In module: `chains.conversational_retrieval.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.17
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: [create_history_aware_retriever](https://api.python.langchain.com/en/latest/chains/langchain.chains.history_aware_retriever.create_history_aware_retriever.html) together with [create_retrieval_chain](https://api.python.langchain.com/en/latest/chains/langchain.chains.retrieval.create_retrieval_chain.html#langchain-chains-retrieval-create-retrieval-chain) (see example in docstring)
This [migration guide](/docs/how_to/migrate_chains/#conversationalretrievalchain) has a side-by-side comparison.


#### create_extraction_chain_pydantic


In module: `chains.openai_tools.extraction`
Deprecated: 0.1.14
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: [with_structured_output](/docs/how_to/structured_output/#the-with_structured_output-method) method on chat models that support tool calling.


#### create_openai_fn_runnable


In module: `chains.structured_output.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.14
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: [with_structured_output](/docs/how_to/structured_output/#the-with_structured_output-method) method on chat models that support tool calling.


#### create_structured_output_runnable


In module: `chains.structured_output.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.17
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: [with_structured_output](/docs/how_to/structured_output/#the-with_structured_output-method) method on chat models that support tool calling.


#### create_openai_fn_chain


In module: `chains.openai_functions.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.1
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: create_openai_fn_runnable


#### create_structured_output_chain


In module: `chains.openai_functions.base`
Deprecated: 0.1.1
Removal: 0.3.0

Alternative: ChatOpenAI.with_structured_output


#### create_extraction_chain


In module: `chains.openai_functions.extraction`
Deprecated: 0.1.14
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: [with_structured_output](/docs/how_to/structured_output/#the-with_structured_output-method) method on chat models that support tool calling.


#### create_extraction_chain_pydantic


In module: `chains.openai_functions.extraction`
Deprecated: 0.1.14
Removal: 0.3.0


Alternative: [with_structured_output](/docs/how_to/structured_output/#the-with_structured_output-method) method on chat models that support tool calling.
