docs/docs/integrations/retrievers/index.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 0
sidebar_class_name: hidden
---

# Retrievers

A **retriever** is an interface that returns documents given an unstructured query.
It is more general than a vector store.
A retriever does not need to be able to store documents, only to return (or retrieve) them.
Retrievers can be created from vector stores, but are also broad enough to include [Wikipedia search](/docs/integrations/retrievers/wikipedia/) and [Amazon Kendra](/docs/integrations/retrievers/amazon_kendra_retriever/).

Retrievers accept a string query as input and return a list of Document's as output.

For specifics on how to use retrievers, see the [relevant how-to guides here](/docs/how_to/#retrievers).

This table lists common retrievers.


| Retriever | Namespace | Native async | Local |
|-----------|-----------|---------------|------|
| [AmazonKnowledgeBasesRetriever](https://api.python.langchain.com/en/latest/retrievers/langchain_aws.retrievers.bedrock.AmazonKnowledgeBasesRetriever.html) | langchain_aws.retrievers | ❌ | ❌ |
| [AzureAISearchRetriever](https://api.python.langchain.com/en/latest/retrievers/langchain_community.retrievers.azure_ai_search.AzureAISearchRetriever.html) | langchain_community.retrievers | ✅ | ❌ |
| [ElasticsearchRetriever](https://api.python.langchain.com/en/latest/retrievers/langchain_elasticsearch.retrievers.ElasticsearchRetriever.html) | langchain_elasticsearch | ❌ | ❌ |
| [MilvusCollectionHybridSearchRetriever](https://api.python.langchain.com/en/latest/retrievers/langchain_milvus.retrievers.milvus_hybrid_search.MilvusCollectionHybridSearchRetriever.html) | langchain_milvus | ❌ | ❌ |
| [TavilySearchAPIRetriever](https://api.python.langchain.com/en/latest/retrievers/langchain_community.retrievers.tavily_search_api.TavilySearchAPIRetriever.html) | langchain_community.retrievers | ❌ | ❌ |
| [VertexAISearchRetriever](https://api.python.langchain.com/en/latest/vertex_ai_search/langchain_google_community.vertex_ai_search.VertexAISearchRetriever.html) | langchain_google_community.vertex_ai_search | ❌ | ❌ |

Commit message:

docs: update retriever integration pages (#24931)

docs/docs/integrations/retrievers/index.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 0
sidebar_class_name: hidden
---

# Retrievers

A [retriever](/docs/concepts/#retrievers) is an interface that returns documents given an unstructured query.
It is more general than a vector store.
A retriever does not need to be able to store documents, only to return (or retrieve) them.
Retrievers can be created from vector stores, but are also broad enough to include [Wikipedia search](/docs/integrations/retrievers/wikipedia/) and [Amazon Kendra](/docs/integrations/retrievers/amazon_kendra_retriever/).

Retrievers accept a string query as input and return a list of [Documents](https://api.python.langchain.com/en/latest/documents/langchain_core.documents.base.Document.html) as output.

For specifics on how to use retrievers, see the [relevant how-to guides here](/docs/how_to/#retrievers).

Note that all [vector stores](/docs/concepts/#vector-stores) can be [cast to retrievers](/docs/how_to/vectorstore_retriever/).
Refer to the vector store [integration docs](/docs/integrations/vectorstores/) for available vector stores.
This table lists custom retrievers, implemented via subclassing [BaseRetriever](/docs/how_to/custom_retriever/).


| Retriever | Bring your own docs | Self-host | Cloud offering | Package |
|-----------|---------------------|-----------|----------------|---------|
| [AmazonKnowledgeBasesRetriever](/docs/integrations/retrievers/bedrock) | ✅ | ❌ | ✅ | [langchain_aws](https://api.python.langchain.com/en/latest/retrievers/langchain_aws.retrievers.bedrock.AmazonKnowledgeBasesRetriever.html) |
| [AzureAISearchRetriever](/docs/integrations/retrievers/azure_ai_search) | ✅ | ❌ | ✅ | [langchain_community](https://api.python.langchain.com/en/latest/retrievers/langchain_community.retrievers.azure_ai_search.AzureAISearchRetriever.html) |
| [ElasticsearchRetriever](/docs/integrations/retrievers/elasticsearch_retriever) | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | [langchain_elasticsearch](https://api.python.langchain.com/en/latest/retrievers/langchain_elasticsearch.retrievers.ElasticsearchRetriever.html) |
| [MilvusCollectionHybridSearchRetriever](/docs/integrations/retrievers/milvus_hybrid_search) | ✅ | ❌ | ✅ | [langchain_milvus](https://api.python.langchain.com/en/latest/retrievers/langchain_milvus.retrievers.milvus_hybrid_search.MilvusCollectionHybridSearchRetriever.html) |
| [TavilySearchAPIRetriever](/docs/integrations/retrievers/tavily) | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | [langchain_community](https://api.python.langchain.com/en/latest/retrievers/langchain_community.retrievers.tavily_search_api.TavilySearchAPIRetriever.html) |
| [VertexAISearchRetriever](/docs/integrations/retrievers/google_vertex_ai_search) | ✅ | ❌ | ✅ | [langchain_google_community](https://api.python.langchain.com/en/latest/vertex_ai_search/langchain_google_community.vertex_ai_search.VertexAISearchRetriever.html) |
