docs/api_reference/templates/runnable_pydantic.rst, before:

:mod:`{{module}}`.{{objname}}
{{ underline }}==============

.. NOTE:: {{objname}} implements the standard :py:class:`Runnable Interface <langchain_core.runnables.base.Runnable>`. 🏃

.. currentmodule:: {{ module }}

.. autopydantic_model:: {{ objname }}
    :model-show-json: False
    :model-show-config-summary: False
    :model-show-validator-members: False
    :model-show-field-summary: False
    :field-signature-prefix: param
    :members:
    :undoc-members:
    :inherited-members:
    :member-order: groupwise
    :show-inheritance: True
    :special-members: __call__
    :exclude-members: construct, copy, dict, from_orm, parse_file, parse_obj, parse_raw, schema, schema_json, update_forward_refs, validate, json, is_lc_serializable, to_json, to_json_not_implemented, lc_secrets, lc_attributes, lc_id, get_lc_namespace, invoke, ainvoke, batch, abatch, batch_as_completed, abatch_as_completed, astream_log, stream, astream, astream_events, transform, atransform, get_output_schema, get_prompts, configurable_fields, configurable_alternatives, config_schema, map, pick, pipe, with_listeners, with_alisteners, with_config, with_fallbacks, with_types, with_retry, InputType, OutputType, config_specs, output_schema, get_input_schema, get_graph, get_name, input_schema, name, bind, assign

.. example_links:: {{ objname }}

Commit message:

docs: Resurface some methods in API reference and clarify note at top of Reference (#23633)
This PR modifies the API Reference in the following way:

1. Relist standard methods: invoke, ainvoke, batch, abatch,
batch_as_completed, abatch_as_completed, stream, astream,
astream_events. These are the main entry points for a lot of runnables,
so we'll keep them for each runnable.
2. Relist methods from Runnable Serializable: to_json,
configurable_fields, configurable_alternatives.
3. Expand the note in the API reference documentation to explain that
additional methods are available.

docs/api_reference/templates/runnable_pydantic.rst, after:

:mod:`{{module}}`.{{objname}}
{{ underline }}==============

.. NOTE:: {{objname}} implements the standard :py:class:`Runnable Interface <langchain_core.runnables.base.Runnable>`. 🏃

    The :py:class:`Runnable Interface <langchain_core.runnables.base.Runnable>` has additional methods that are available on runnables, such as :py:meth:`with_types <langchain_core.runnables.base.Runnable.with_types>`, :py:meth:`with_retry <langchain_core.runnables.base.Runnable.with_retry>`, :py:meth:`assign <langchain_core.runnables.base.Runnable.assign>`, :py:meth:`bind <langchain_core.runnables.base.Runnable.bind>`, :py:meth:`get_graph <langchain_core.runnables.base.Runnable.get_graph>`, and more.

.. currentmodule:: {{ module }}

.. autopydantic_model:: {{ objname }}
    :model-show-json: False
    :model-show-config-summary: False
    :model-show-validator-members: False
    :model-show-field-summary: False
    :field-signature-prefix: param
    :members:
    :undoc-members:
    :inherited-members:
    :member-order: groupwise
    :show-inheritance: True
    :special-members: __call__
    :exclude-members: construct, copy, dict, from_orm, parse_file, parse_obj, parse_raw, schema, schema_json, update_forward_refs, validate, json, is_lc_serializable, to_json_not_implemented, lc_secrets, lc_attributes, lc_id, get_lc_namespace, astream_log, transform, atransform, get_output_schema, get_prompts, config_schema, map, pick, pipe, with_listeners, with_alisteners, with_config, with_fallbacks, with_types, with_retry, InputType, OutputType, config_specs, output_schema, get_input_schema, get_graph, get_name, input_schema, name, bind, assign

.. example_links:: {{ objname }}
