libs/partners/ai21/README.md, before:

# langchain-ai21

This package contains the LangChain integrations for [AI21](https://docs.ai21.com/) models and tools.

## Installation and Setup

- Install the AI21 partner package
```bash
pip install langchain-ai21
```
- Get an AI21 api key and set it as an environment variable (`AI21_API_KEY`)


## Chat Models

This package contains the `ChatAI21` class, which is the recommended way to interface with AI21 chat models, including Jamba-Instruct
and any Jurassic chat models.

To use, install the requirements and configure your environment.

```bash
export AI21_API_KEY=your-api-key
```

Then initialize

```python
from langchain_core.messages import HumanMessage
from langchain_ai21.chat_models import ChatAI21

chat = ChatAI21(model="jamba-instruct-preview")
messages = [HumanMessage(content="Hello from AI21")]
chat.invoke(messages)
```

For a list of the supported models, see [this page](https://docs.ai21.com/reference/python-sdk#chat)

## LLMs
You can use AI21's Jurassic generative AI models as LangChain LLMs.
To use the newer Jamba model, use the [ChatAI21 chat model](#chat-models), which
supports single-turn instruction/question answering capabilities.

```python
from langchain_core.prompts import PromptTemplate
from langchain_ai21 import AI21LLM

llm = AI21LLM(model="j2-ultra")

template = """Question: {question}

Answer: Let's think step by step."""
prompt = PromptTemplate.from_template(template)

chain = prompt | llm

question = "Which scientist discovered relativity?"
print(chain.invoke({"question": question}))
```

## Embeddings

You can use AI21's [embeddings model](https://docs.ai21.com/reference/embeddings-ref) as shown here:

### Query

```python
from langchain_ai21 import AI21Embeddings

embeddings = AI21Embeddings()
embeddings.embed_query("Hello! This is some query")
```

### Document

```python
from langchain_ai21 import AI21Embeddings

embeddings = AI21Embeddings()
embeddings.embed_documents(["Hello! This is document 1", "And this is document 2!"])
```

## Task-Specific Models

### Contextual Answers

You can use AI21's [contextual answers model](https://docs.ai21.com/reference/contextual-answers-ref) to parse
given text and answer a question based entirely on the provided information.

This means that if the answer to your question is not in the document,
the model will indicate it (instead of providing a false answer)

```python
from langchain_ai21 import AI21ContextualAnswers

tsm = AI21ContextualAnswers()

response = tsm.invoke(input={"context": "Lots of information here", "question": "Your question about the context"})
```
You can also use it with chains and output parsers and vector DBs:
```python
from langchain_ai21 import AI21ContextualAnswers
from langchain_core.output_parsers import StrOutputParser

tsm = AI21ContextualAnswers()
chain = tsm | StrOutputParser()

response = chain.invoke(
    {"context": "Your context", "question": "Your question"},
)
```

## Text Splitters

### Semantic Text Splitter

You can use AI21's semantic [text segmentation model](https://docs.ai21.com/reference/text-segmentation-ref) to split a text into segments by topic.
Text is split at each point where the topic changes.

For a list for examples, see [this page](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langchain/blob/master/docs/docs/modules/data_connection/document_transformers/semantic_text_splitter.ipynb).

```python
from langchain_ai21 import AI21SemanticTextSplitter

splitter = AI21SemanticTextSplitter()
response = splitter.split_text("Your text")
```

Commit message:

partners: AI21 Labs Jamba Streaming Support (#23538)
Thank you for contributing to LangChain!

- [x] **PR title**: "package: description"

- [x] **PR message**: ***Delete this entire checklist*** and replace
with
    - **Description:** Added support for streaming in AI21 Jamba Model
    - **Twitter handle:** https://github.com/AI21Labs


- [x] **Add tests and docs**: If you're adding a new integration, please
include

- [x] **Lint and test**: Run `make format`, `make lint` and `make test`
from the root of the package(s) you've modified. See contribution
guidelines for more: https://python.langchain.com/docs/contributing/

Additional guidelines:
- Make sure optional dependencies are imported within a function.
- Please do not add dependencies to pyproject.toml files (even optional
ones) unless they are required for unit tests.
- Most PRs should not touch more than one package.
- Changes should be backwards compatible.
- If you are adding something to community, do not re-import it in
langchain.

---------

Co-authored-by: Asaf Gardin <asafg@ai21.com>
Co-authored-by: Erick Friis <erick@langchain.dev>
Co-authored-by: Chester Curme <chester.curme@gmail.com>

libs/partners/ai21/README.md, after:

# langchain-ai21

This package contains the LangChain integrations for [AI21](https://docs.ai21.com/) models and tools.

## Installation and Setup

- Install the AI21 partner package
```bash
pip install langchain-ai21
```
- Get an AI21 api key and set it as an environment variable (`AI21_API_KEY`)


## Chat Models

This package contains the `ChatAI21` class, which is the recommended way to interface with AI21 chat models, including Jamba-Instruct
and any Jurassic chat models.

To use, install the requirements and configure your environment.

```bash
export AI21_API_KEY=your-api-key
```

Then initialize

```python
from langchain_core.messages import HumanMessage
from langchain_ai21.chat_models import ChatAI21

chat = ChatAI21(model="jamba-instruct")
messages = [HumanMessage(content="Hello from AI21")]
chat.invoke(messages)
```

For a list of the supported models, see [this page](https://docs.ai21.com/reference/python-sdk#chat)

### Streaming in Chat
Streaming is supported by the latest models. To use streaming, set the `streaming` parameter to `True` when initializing the model.

```python
from langchain_core.messages import HumanMessage
from langchain_ai21.chat_models import ChatAI21

chat = ChatAI21(model="jamba-instruct", streaming=True)
messages = [HumanMessage(content="Hello from AI21")]

response = chat.invoke(messages)
```

or use the `stream` method directly

```python
from langchain_core.messages import HumanMessage
from langchain_ai21.chat_models import ChatAI21

chat = ChatAI21(model="jamba-instruct")
messages = [HumanMessage(content="Hello from AI21")]

for chunk in chat.stream(messages):
    print(chunk)
```


## LLMs
You can use AI21's Jurassic generative AI models as LangChain LLMs.
To use the newer Jamba model, use the [ChatAI21 chat model](#chat-models), which
supports single-turn instruction/question answering capabilities.

```python
from langchain_core.prompts import PromptTemplate
from langchain_ai21 import AI21LLM

llm = AI21LLM(model="j2-ultra")

template = """Question: {question}

Answer: Let's think step by step."""
prompt = PromptTemplate.from_template(template)

chain = prompt | llm

question = "Which scientist discovered relativity?"
print(chain.invoke({"question": question}))
```

## Embeddings

You can use AI21's [embeddings model](https://docs.ai21.com/reference/embeddings-ref) as shown here:

### Query

```python
from langchain_ai21 import AI21Embeddings

embeddings = AI21Embeddings()
embeddings.embed_query("Hello! This is some query")
```

### Document

```python
from langchain_ai21 import AI21Embeddings

embeddings = AI21Embeddings()
embeddings.embed_documents(["Hello! This is document 1", "And this is document 2!"])
```

## Task-Specific Models

### Contextual Answers

You can use AI21's [contextual answers model](https://docs.ai21.com/reference/contextual-answers-ref) to parse
given text and answer a question based entirely on the provided information.

This means that if the answer to your question is not in the document,
the model will indicate it (instead of providing a false answer)

```python
from langchain_ai21 import AI21ContextualAnswers

tsm = AI21ContextualAnswers()

response = tsm.invoke(input={"context": "Lots of information here", "question": "Your question about the context"})
```
You can also use it with chains and output parsers and vector DBs:
```python
from langchain_ai21 import AI21ContextualAnswers
from langchain_core.output_parsers import StrOutputParser

tsm = AI21ContextualAnswers()
chain = tsm | StrOutputParser()

response = chain.invoke(
    {"context": "Your context", "question": "Your question"},
)
```

## Text Splitters

### Semantic Text Splitter

You can use AI21's semantic [text segmentation model](https://docs.ai21.com/reference/text-segmentation-ref) to split a text into segments by topic.
Text is split at each point where the topic changes.

For a list for examples, see [this page](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langchain/blob/master/docs/docs/modules/data_connection/document_transformers/semantic_text_splitter.ipynb).

```python
from langchain_ai21 import AI21SemanticTextSplitter

splitter = AI21SemanticTextSplitter()
response = splitter.split_text("Your text")
```
