docs/docs/integrations/providers/oci.mdx, before:

# Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI)

The `LangChain` integrations related to [Oracle Cloud Infrastructure](https://www.oracle.com/artificial-intelligence/).

## LLMs

### OCI Generative AI
> Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) [Generative AI](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/generative-ai/home.htm) is a fully managed service that provides a set of state-of-the-art,
> customizable large language models (LLMs) that cover a wide range of use cases, and which are available through a single API.
> Using the OCI Generative AI service you can access ready-to-use pretrained models, or create and host your own fine-tuned
> custom models based on your own data on dedicated AI clusters. 

To use, you should have the latest `oci` python SDK installed.

```bash
pip install -U oci
```

See [usage examples](/docs/integrations/llms/oci_generative_ai).

```python
from langchain_community.llms import OCIGenAI
```

### OCI Data Science Model Deployment Endpoint

> [OCI Data Science](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/data-science/using/home.htm) is a
> fully managed and serverless platform for data science teams. Using the OCI Data Science
> platform you can build, train, and manage machine learning models, and then deploy them
> as an OCI Model Deployment Endpoint using the
> [OCI Data Science Model Deployment Service](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/data-science/using/model-dep-about.htm).

If you deployed a LLM with the VLLM or TGI framework, you can use the
`OCIModelDeploymentVLLM` or `OCIModelDeploymentTGI` classes to interact with it.

To use, you should have the latest `oracle-ads` python SDK installed.

```bash
pip install -U oracle-ads
```

See [usage examples](/docs/integrations/llms/oci_model_deployment_endpoint).

```python
from langchain_community.llms import OCIModelDeploymentVLLM

from langchain_community.llms import OCIModelDeploymentTGI
```

## Text Embedding Models

### OCI Generative AI

See [usage examples](/docs/integrations/text_embedding/oci_generative_ai).

```python
from langchain_community.embeddings import OCIGenAIEmbeddings
```

Commit message:

Add OCI Generative AI new model support  (#22880)
- [x] PR title: 
community: Add OCI Generative AI new model support
 
- [x] PR message:
- Description: adding support for new models offered by OCI Generative
AI services. This is a moderate update of our initial integration PR
16548 and includes a new integration for our chat models under
/langchain_community/chat_models/oci_generative_ai.py
    - Issue: NA
- Dependencies: No new Dependencies, just latest version of our OCI sdk
    - Twitter handle: NA


- [x] Add tests and docs: 
  1. we have updated our unit tests
2. we have updated our documentation including a new ipynb for our new
chat integration


- [x] Lint and test: 
 `make format`, `make lint`, and `make test` run successfully

---------

Co-authored-by: RHARPAZ <RHARPAZ@RHARPAZ-5750.us.oracle.com>
Co-authored-by: Arthur Cheng <arthur.cheng@oracle.com>

docs/docs/integrations/providers/oci.mdx, after:

# Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI)

The `LangChain` integrations related to [Oracle Cloud Infrastructure](https://www.oracle.com/artificial-intelligence/).

## OCI Generative AI
> Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) [Generative AI](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/generative-ai/home.htm) is a fully managed service that provides a set of state-of-the-art,
> customizable large language models (LLMs) that cover a wide range of use cases, and which are available through a single API.
> Using the OCI Generative AI service you can access ready-to-use pretrained models, or create and host your own fine-tuned
> custom models based on your own data on dedicated AI clusters. 

To use, you should have the latest `oci` python SDK and the langchain_community package installed.

```bash
pip install -U oci langchain-community
```

See [chat](/docs/integrations/llms/oci_generative_ai), [complete](/docs/integrations/chat/oci_generative_ai), and [embedding](/docs/integrations/text_embedding/oci_generative_ai) usage examples.

```python
from langchain_community.chat_models import ChatOCIGenAI

from langchain_community.llms import OCIGenAI

from langchain_community.embeddings import OCIGenAIEmbeddings
```

## OCI Data Science Model Deployment Endpoint

> [OCI Data Science](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/data-science/using/home.htm) is a
> fully managed and serverless platform for data science teams. Using the OCI Data Science
> platform you can build, train, and manage machine learning models, and then deploy them
> as an OCI Model Deployment Endpoint using the
> [OCI Data Science Model Deployment Service](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/data-science/using/model-dep-about.htm).

If you deployed a LLM with the VLLM or TGI framework, you can use the
`OCIModelDeploymentVLLM` or `OCIModelDeploymentTGI` classes to interact with it.

To use, you should have the latest `oracle-ads` python SDK installed.

```bash
pip install -U oracle-ads
```

See [usage examples](/docs/integrations/llms/oci_model_deployment_endpoint).

```python
from langchain_community.llms import OCIModelDeploymentVLLM

from langchain_community.llms import OCIModelDeploymentTGI
```
