docs/docs/integrations/providers/tidb.mdx, before:

# TiDB

> [TiDB Cloud](https://tidbcloud.com/), is a comprehensive Database-as-a-Service (DBaaS) solution, 
> that provides dedicated and serverless options. `TiDB Serverless` is now integrating 
> a built-in vector search into the MySQL landscape. With this enhancement, you can seamlessly 
> develop AI applications using `TiDB Serverless` without the need for a new database or additional 
> technical stacks. Be among the first to experience it by joining the [waitlist for the private beta](https://tidb.cloud/ai).


## Installation and Setup

You have to get the connection details for the TiDB database. 
Visit the [TiDB Cloud](https://tidbcloud.com/) to get the connection details.

```bash
## Document loader

```python
from langchain_community.document_loaders import TiDBLoader
```

Please refer the details [here](/docs/integrations/document_loaders/tidb).

## Vector store

```python
from langchain_community.vectorstores import TiDBVectorStore
```
Please refer the details [here](/docs/integrations/vectorstores/tidb_vector).


## Memory

```python
from langchain_community.chat_message_histories import TiDBChatMessageHistory
```

Please refer the details [here](/docs/integrations/memory/tidb_chat_message_history).

Commit message:

docs: update TiDB Cloud links as vector search feature becomes public beta (#24667)
Thank you for contributing to LangChain!

- [ ] **PR title**: "package: description"
- Where "package" is whichever of langchain, community, core,
experimental, etc. is being modified. Use "docs: ..." for purely docs
changes, "templates: ..." for template changes, "infra: ..." for CI
changes.
  - Example: "community: add foobar LLM"


- [ ] **PR message**: ***Delete this entire checklist*** and replace
with
    - **Description:** a description of the change
    - **Issue:** the issue # it fixes, if applicable
    - **Dependencies:** any dependencies required for this change
- **Twitter handle:** if your PR gets announced, and you'd like a
mention, we'll gladly shout you out!


- [ ] **Add tests and docs**: If you're adding a new integration, please
include
1. a test for the integration, preferably unit tests that do not rely on
network access,
2. an example notebook showing its use. It lives in
`docs/docs/integrations` directory.


- [ ] **Lint and test**: Run `make format`, `make lint` and `make test`
from the root of the package(s) you've modified. See contribution
guidelines for more: https://python.langchain.com/docs/contributing/

Additional guidelines:
- Make sure optional dependencies are imported within a function.
- Please do not add dependencies to pyproject.toml files (even optional
ones) unless they are required for unit tests.
- Most PRs should not touch more than one package.
- Changes should be backwards compatible.
- If you are adding something to community, do not re-import it in
langchain.

If no one reviews your PR within a few days, please @-mention one of
baskaryan, efriis, eyurtsev, ccurme, vbarda, hwchase17.

docs/docs/integrations/providers/tidb.mdx, after:

# TiDB

> [TiDB Cloud](https://pingcap.com/ai), is a comprehensive Database-as-a-Service (DBaaS) solution,
> that provides dedicated and serverless options. `TiDB Serverless` is now integrating 
> a built-in vector search into the MySQL landscape. With this enhancement, you can seamlessly 
> develop AI applications using `TiDB Serverless` without the need for a new database or additional 
> technical stacks. Create a free TiDB Serverless cluster and start using the vector search feature today.


## Installation and Setup

You have to get the connection details for the TiDB database. 
Visit the [TiDB Cloud](https://tidbcloud.com/) to get the connection details.

```bash
## Document loader

```python
from langchain_community.document_loaders import TiDBLoader
```

Please refer the details [here](/docs/integrations/document_loaders/tidb).

## Vector store

```python
from langchain_community.vectorstores import TiDBVectorStore
```
Please refer the details [here](/docs/integrations/vectorstores/tidb_vector).


## Memory

```python
from langchain_community.chat_message_histories import TiDBChatMessageHistory
```

Please refer the details [here](/docs/integrations/memory/tidb_chat_message_history).
